Using the GLcell element:
---------------------

The GLcell element must be explicitly created and set up with
appropriate field values (some are optional) as described
below. GENESIS-style script examples are also provided:

> create GLcell gl0
> setclock 4 0.01
> useclock gl0 4

Required fields:
-------------

a. 'path': this specifies the GENESIS-style path for the geometry to
be visualized; this will have been loaded previously with the
'readcell' script command:

> readcell test.p /axon
> setfield gl0 path /axon

b. 'port': this specifies the network port (on localhost or on a
remote machine) over which this GLcell element will communicate with
the corresponding client instance (the process 'glclient'):

> setfield gl0 port 9999


Optional fields:
-------------

c. 'host': default value is '127.0.0.1'. This specifies the machine on
which the corresponding client instance is running.

> setfield gl0 host localhost

d. 'attribute': default value is 'Vm'. This is the field under
observation. Values for this field will be mapped to color ranges as
specified by a colormap file passed to the client instance.

>setfield gl0 attribute Vm

e. 'threshold': default value is 1e-8. Changes in the 'attribute'
field's value smaller than the value of 'threshold' are not
transmitted to the client instance. Values are compared against the
last value transmitted for the specific compartment, not necessarily
the value at the last clock pulse. The intent is to reduce the
bandwidth of transmission between the GLcell element and the client
instance; this substantially improves the performance of the client
instance.

> setfield gl0 threshold 0.0015

f. 'sync': default value is 'off'. If the time taken by the client
instance to render one frame of color information (over all
compartments) exceeds the time taken by the MOOSE simulation to
simulate one time-step, the simulation may overtake the 3D display and
the 3D display will skip intermediate frames in order to keep up with
the state of the simulation.

This flag forces the two to operate in lockstep, which may be useful
for debugging or while recording movies for publication (so that no
frames are skipped) but will slow down the MOOSE simulation.

A longer explanation is provided in Appendix A of the file README.

> setfield gl0 sync on
OR
> setfield gl0 sync off

g. 'vscale': default value is 1.0. Cylindrical compartments when drawn
in a physiologically accurate ratio between their diameters and
lengths can be too thin to render well visually. They can be scaled up
in thickness, only in terms of visual appearance and not numerically,
by specificying this value as greater than 1.0.

> setfield gl0 vscale 4

h. 'bgcolor': default value is 000000000. This represents the
background color of the viewer window, encoded as a string in the
format RRRGGGBBB, where 000000000 is black (the default) and 255255255
is white.

> setfield gl0 bgcolor 100100100

i. 'highvalue': default value is 0.05 (to be interpreted as 0.05V,
where the attribute is Vm). This is the value represented by the color
specified on the last line of the colormap file. This represents the
highest value that the attribute is assumed to be able to attain. Any
values greater than this, should they occur, will be mapped to the
color which corresponds to this value.

> setfield gl0 highvalue 0.1

j. 'lowvalue': default value is -0.1 (to be interpreted as -0.1V,
where the attribute is Vm). This is the value represented by the color
specified on the first line of the colormap file. This represents the
lowest value that the attribute is assumed to be able to attain. Any
values lower than this, should they occur, will be mapped to the color
which corresponds to this value.

> setfield gl0 lowvalue -0.08



A version of DEMOS/gbar/myelin.g, modified to include GLcell, is
included in the directory DEMOS/gbar/ as cMyelin.g. See the file README
for general operating instructions to launch such a script, coupled with
an instance of 'glclient', as a complete example.
